you're here to do your very first adult
film how do you feel
pretty nervous but ready so what made
you want to come to a porn video
just to try something new i'm 18. about
a week ago
i turned 18 a week i'm 21. how old are
you
18. how long you've been 18 like a week
and a half
a week and a half they're gonna control
you they'll make you feel like you're
famous
man you're famous dude you're big
you're the next big thing man you're
gonna be
johnny depp guess what they're raping
you
son they are raping you
you don't know what's actually happening
because
guys like me are looking
[Music]
all i want to do is like start and only
fans and frolic naked in a field
i've seen some of your guys's videos oh
my god and i was like girlfriendporn.com
was the top of your list
yep when you went to shoot your first
adult video
i'm graduating high school next week
uh do you have a boyfriend yes you do
did you know you're here
no have you ever cheated on a boyfriend
before no
no no first time yeah and you were
telling me
a little interesting fact that you
actually got you lost a bit to do this
we weren't going to say what the bet is
but
you lost the bet with a friend to do
this video yeah
it's true you say it like it's a bad
thing uh
it's a porn thing i mean really people
like to disrespect my crew but the fact
is that you know my name and i don't
know
you before reality television
there was television
before there was only fans
there was this other website
girls do porn they're different
in important ways but they're similar
in that a distinctive part of the
product
a distinctive part of what the audience
is paying for is realness
is this strange sense that we call in
english
the girl next door fact the what what
does that mean
who who lives next door to why do we say
that in english the girl next door
not that this is somebody you actually
know
it's somebody that you could know
it's somebody that you have some kind
of social relationship to that is not
quite the same as the relationship
of the audience to a movie star
or the viewing public to a news
broadcaster
there was a transition from television
to reality television
and this somehow made the characters in
the screen
seem tangible and relatable and
real what made you want to do this um
it's an experience to have
yeah how many guys have you been with
um i think five
do you work out or anything um i surf
you surf
yeah and what do you do are you working
or studying um yeah i just work retail
right now
swing you enjoy that it's a job
it's a job what is it exactly
that people are now paying for on
only fans it's not to admire a movie
star from afar it's to have
some kind of simulated social
relationship
however phony some kind of packaged
telecommunications mediated intimacy
with
these people these performers that
members of the audience
feel they know one of the assumptions
about models porn stars and
personalities
promoting themselves on only fans is
that
they have made the decision to go public
to take their name and the details of
their private life
and put it on the internet and become a
public figure in in many cases that's
not true
in many cases actually they're trying to
conceal their face conceal their name
trying to maintain a private life but
the assumption is
that if you're on only fans you've made
this choice and you're promoting
yourself and the assumption about the
women
who appeared on girls do porn is that
they were trying to maintain
their anonymity and that is not always
true
however one of the most salacious and
shocking aspects
of the court case that brought the
website girls to porn to its end
was the revelation that the owners of
the company
themselves the filmmakers themselves
were doxing the models which is to say
they were promising these women that
they would treat their
names phone numbers email addresses
as private and confidential and on the
contrary sometimes on the same day
that a video was posted to their website
precisely this private information that
the filmmakers had received in writing a
contract with these women
was posted on the internet fans were
encouraged
to share personal information on
websites that were owned
by the same team of filmmakers the
plaintiffs need not
show that defendants personally leaked
the names or participated in the
harassment of the models of the porn
stars if you like
although there is evidence that they did
the porn wikileaks forum specifically
dedicated to identifying the women who
appear
on girls do porn at one point contained
a prominent banner that read
quote real names and personal family
info
right from the owner of girlsdewborn.com
he exposes real names and personal
family info
of the closet [ __ ] he films
close quote this banner published on a
site owned by the defendants
provides the most straightforward and
plausible explanation
of how this happened it's worthwhile
to pause and reflect why is this
shocking
it's shocking because these women
imagined
that they could appear in a pornographic
film
without anyone ever knowing their name
without anyone ever knowing their
educational history
where they went to school without anyone
knowing the jobs they'd had in the past
and perhaps the career
they aspired to have in the future
therefore
we treat the revelation of those facts
as shocking it's only shocking
because we presume those things can be
concealed this is the year 2020.
every single social media influencer
myself included cannot conceal any of
that information
this is the year 2020 each and every
young woman who chooses to market
her body and her personality on a
website like only fans
today is presumed to become a
kind of social media influencer who will
share
anecdotes from her personal life and it
will be possible
for anyone and everyone in her audience
to know
her real name where she grew up where
she went to school
perhaps jobs she had in the past perhaps
about ex-boyfriends she had in the past
you may complain about her on the
internet
and yes to know about her career
aspirations
in the future i'm not disputing
whether or not this is shocking but i'm
inviting you to take a moment
and reflect on why and to look at the
road ahead
because i of all people i know the
burden
of being a social media influencer of
having all of the disadvantages of fame
with none of the advantages i've never
done this before
why not it never really
crossed my mind yeah so what made you
want to do today
um gotta pay the bills
yeah yeah is that the only reason you're
doing this
um i think everyone has a little bit of
inner
freak i guess the public passion
we're dealing with here is an appetite
for reality not fantasy
the mania for disclosure turns up
this type of contradiction the woman
claims she's poor that she's
participating in pornography
just in order to pay the bills and then
what does the audience
leap on this audience of hated trolls
that leap on the fact that she received
a scholarship worth close to 100 000 us
dollars
that she is in fact a graduate of some
kind of tremendously elite
academy this tells you a little bit
about the resentment against particular
persons in the equation but it tells you
a great deal
about what's going on in the united
states of america
in the 21st century some of you may now
be asking how could it be that even a
few
of these women imagined that they would
maintain
their anonymity that they would maintain
their privacy
after appearing in a pornographic film
of this kind
evidently there were hundreds of models
who worked with this company some of
them went on to become
famous porn stars and promoted their own
careers
but 22 women were part of this
lawsuit the company in question had
more than 500 women make pornographic
films of them perhaps the real number is
closer to 700 i don't know
what was the plausible reason given to
them
how could they have possibly believed
that this film would not end up on the
internet
well the answer is there was absolutely
no plausible reason
whatsoever and in fact that was all that
the lawyers could argue
on behalf of the filmmakers was to point
out again and again
it's completely ridiculous to claim that
the video would only be seen in
australia england and quote a few other
really remote countries it's completely
ridiculous to imagine
that a film on dvd would never end up
on the internet how could anyone be
alive in the year 2019
and imagine that films that are on dvds
are never
shared on the internet that's ridiculous
how could anyone believe as in the
second quotation here
that only men on fishing boats were
going to be able to watch it that there
is no
plausible way they could have imagined
that this would not end up
as a public widely seen film on the
internet
but that is irrelevant to american law
as you can see on screen here under
american law
if someone is incredibly foolish that
only
increases the burden of honesty on the
businessman
to truly explain to them what it is
that this contract means that they're
signing the more
foolish the customer is the more easily
defrauded the customer is
the greater the burden on the business
person to be fair and open and honest to
avoid
misleading them in the 22 case studies
documented in these court documents
there is not a single word indicating
that the women
found this empowering on the contrary
these women try to reach out to us and
let us know
how utterly devastating this was for
their personal lives
for their emotional lives for their
intellectual lives
for the education that in many cases
they dropped out of
because they were so distraught and
this is where there's a peculiar moral
tension
they also step forward to complain
that this destroyed their relationships
with their boyfriends
in this woman's case it was a fiancee
are you working or studying i am i study
international business and i work as a
receptionist at an i.t
office do you have a boyfriend no i
don't
when was last time you had a boyfriend
the last time i had a boyfriend
oh god like a real official boyfriend is
probably like
two years ago okay that's a while so you
kind of hesitated
you're kind of saying someone or not
right now i'm like i'm kind of sort of
seeing somebody okay but like it's not
like serious or anything
yet so you didn't tell him you're coming
no
i'm just curious what do you think you'd
say if you knew you were
doing this um he might be a little
mad maybe i don't know he's not gonna
find out
in other cases women stayed together
with their boyfriends
but they complained in court to the
judge that
um well they're complaining that they
can't have their cake
and eat it too if you believe
morally that women ought to have the
right
to prostitute themselves ask yourself
the further question
do you believe that a woman has the
right
to lie to her own boyfriend to her own
husband
to her own father mother
church pastor do you believe that she
has the right
to engage in prostitution in secret and
live a double life
and don't you think the moral
implications of that are significantly
different
for everyone significantly different
from engaging in prostitution
or in being a porn star honestly and
openly
these women not all of them but many
many of the cases
of the 22 in these court documents these
women are complaining
that they had to face the consequences
of disappointing
their own boyfriends let's talk about
the very first time you ever had sex
like how old were you who you did it was
where you guys did it
oh lord i was 15
and it was with some guy that my friend
knew
and i thought i really liked him but i
mean it was great
i don't know that much
cool um how many guys have you been with
and one of at least
eight guys i'm in school i'm majoring in
biology it's my sophomore year
and um i work at a restaurant do you
guys ever hit on you
lots lots i work at a restaurant
basically like hooters so
oh have you picked out a major yet like
i mean not major but do you know what
you want to do
i want to be a veterinarian okay cool so
animal lover yeah i love animals
awesome um are you in a relationship
right now i am
okay currently does uh does he know
where you are no he has no idea
he snuck away in a came to do a porn how
do you think he would react if you found
out
oh he leave me really yeah okay
well did you tell anybody that you're
coming out here um
i did tell people i was coming out here
but not
not to do what you're about to do right
how do you think your friends and family
would react
family would kill me friends would
probably kill me
as well received an email from a young
woman who describes herself as having
been involved in sex work to some extent
and who describes herself as being
incapable of getting a real job a
respectable job or the particular type
of professional job she'd like to get
because there are
sexually suggestive photographs of her
available on the internet
and those photographs in all likelihood
would sooner or later
be connected to her name her role in
this profession and then lead to her
being
uh fired i'm not filling in all the
details
partly because i don't know them partly
because it's not relevant to this video
but just note i believe she's using the
word sex work
with its current 2020 definition really
just to mean
the taking of these photographs to my
knowledge she wasn't involved in sex
work
to any other extent or in any other
sense of the term
she asked me a question that many of you
may be asking yourselves
if not in watching this video today then
perhaps i'm watching the earlier videos
in this series i've had
exploring the implications of websites
like only fans
the increasing extent to which the
internet makes it possible for everyone
to commercialize their own sexuality to
make some money
out of their body out of their
appearance
she asked wouldn't it be for the best if
our society
simply moved towards total acceptance
of sex work to get rid of the stigma to
get rid of the prejudice
it is certainly a very easy thing
in principle to call for all mankind
to respect sex workers
and yet it's interesting how all of the
implications
seem so very different when we say
face to face person to person that i'm
asking you
to respect me then i'm asking you to
trust me
that i'm asking you to hire
me i sent her a copy
of my resume my cv
and i said to her look you've watched
the youtube channel for a long time
you're probably generally familiar with
my life and the things i've done and the
jobs i've had and the jobs i've lost put
it that way
um when i lived in thailand
i never slept with a single prostitute
what if there's a parallel universe
where i did
if you compare that other world to this
one
which man do you respect more do you
respect me
for the things that i did in this life
would you regard me differently would
you feel differently but would you
have a different sense of trust or
mistrust
for the person i am if in that other
world i had lived by those very
different
rules and let's be clear when you're
looking at my resume
i never found the cure for cancer i
never accomplished something
self-evidently great or grand or amazing
with my life but whatever i did
accomplish
whatever struggles i had including
struggles to earn money and feed myself
and educate myself and become this
personality you've gotten to know over
youtube
right i played by my own
rules my own moral compass my own moral
code
and for me that absolutely excluded
sleeping with prostitutes in town that's
part of the man i was it's
still today part of the man i am for
better or for worse
right i can see that there are
advantages on the other side so i'm
asking you honestly
if you're gonna say like in general the
world would be a better
place if we all accepted prostitution
with no stigma
can you even extend that kind of respect
to me to this one person here and now
when i lived in china i had the very
real option
to become a prostitute myself i'm not
joking
i had options so let's look again at my
resume so again at my cv
you have some sense of what i did with
my life trying to fashion myself into
some kind of scholar
what if i had spent those years in china
prostituting myself what if there's a
parallel world
where you can compare this life that i
led
with all its strange mixed mediocre
results right i never found the cure for
cancer it's not like you're saying oh
well in this other world this guy became
a prostitute instead of finding the cure
for cancer no
in this other world i became that man
who played by those rules
instead of this world where i became
this one and if you compare those two
men
how do you feel about them how do you
feel about the choices they made
and the consequences of their actions i
think
even in my case you wouldn't respect
me if i had slept with prostitutes as a
client
you wouldn't respect me the same way if
i had become a prostitute myself
so how is it really that we can talk
about extending this kind of respect
to a lawyer you may hire a politician
you may elect if they have in their
personal history
made those same choices those same
decisions
that you would revile in me and you
would revile
in others the idea that prostitution
should be wholly legalized
wholly accepted is not some
hypothetical science fiction fantasy
it's something that has already been
tried in the real world
a minor political leader you might have
heard of
napoleon bonaparte he tried it
it wasn't just his policy in france it
went on to be an
unbelievably influential policy all
around the world
even in places like cambodia the french
empire
globally tried this grand experiment
of the total legalization and total
professionalization
of prostitution you can read that
history
and you can judge its outcomes there is
no doubt
that napoleon was thinking about the
greater good
for the french army he was thinking
about military men
and their ability to sleep with
prostitutes whether they were in the
harbor of marseille
in france or they were getting off the
boat at the other end
in cambodia all right napoleon's
priorities
were not women's equality were not
women's liberation on the contrary those
ideas were
being very much debated and contested in
france during and after
the french revolution he slammed the
door on all of them he didn't want any
of that
but he wanted the professionalization
the mainstreaming
of prostitutes within our society all
right
so there are two or three different
questions to
be asked right and one of them is what
is best for the prostitutes themselves
and one of them is
what is best for society i'm quite
willing to be a hypocrite
but on issues like this i have to
recognize
that my values are radically
incompatible
with the society i'm living in i gave
you guys the hypothetical question
before of
would you be willing to hire this woman
as your lawyer if you know she has a
background that in the past she was a
prostitute
i personally i really am i am willing to
hire someone as my lawyer
and even though i know they used to even
though maybe i can go on the internet
and look up photographs of them or
they're
more of anything i personally feel that
i could make that judgment that i think
this person is intelligent
maybe they're an even better lawyer
because they had that background or
they got the experience of being
arrested or whatever it is i actually
feel comfortable with that
right but i'm challenging you in the
audience could you
would you and how is that going to work
for society as a whole
as you scale it up i mean really people
like to disrespect my crew but the fact
is that you know my name and i don't
know you